mind your decisions i'm presh towalker
a cube with edges of length 10 contains
nine identical spheres as shown one
sphere is in the center of the cube
above it are four spheres that are
tangent to it and tangent to each of the
four corners of the cube
below it is another layer of four
spheres that are tangent to the center
sphere
and tangent to the four corners of the
cube
what is the radius of each sphere pause
the video if you'd like to give this
problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
the key to solving this problem is to
look at the geometry
from the right perspective rather than
analyzing
all nine spheres we will make one great
simplification
we will only consider the position of
three spheres
along the diagonal of the cube
we will then calculate the length of the
diagonal of this q
suppose we have a cube to do this we
will consider the following right
triangle
suppose the cube has an edge length
equal to s
then the bottom face will have a
diagonal that has a length
s times the square root of 2. then the
long diagonal
can be calculated using your favorite
theorem
this results in the length of s times
the square root of 3.
if s is equal to 10 we have the
following dimensions
we will then calculate the length of the
long diagonal in terms of the radius of
each sphere
from the bottom sphere we have a cube
that forms between the center of that
sphere
and the corner of the cube this cube
will have a length equal to the radius
of the sphere
which means its long diagonal will be
equal to r times the square root of 3.
we then have a length here equal to r we
then have a diameter equal to 2r
we then have a radius equal to r and we
then
have another distance from the center of
the sphere to the corner of the cube
which will be equal to r times the
square root of 3.
the entire distance will be equal to r
multiplied by the quantity
four plus two times the square root of
three and this
is equal to ten times the square root of
three
we can thus solve for r and to simplify
things we'll multiply by the conjugate
we thus get that r is equal to the
following which simplifies to be 10
times the square root of 3
minus 15 and that's approximately equal
to 2.32
incredible thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
youtube
see you next episode as we continue our
quest
to solve the world's problems one video
at a time
[Music]